# `etllib.j2` — Jinja2 rendering

---

### function `render_template`        
`render_template(template, streaming=False, **data)`
 renders `data` according to the provided `template` and returns the 
result as a string. If `streaming` is set to `True` returns a 
buffered `TemplateStream`.

The `template` argment must be ba `jinja2.Template` instance loaded
using a method from the APIs described below.

## High-level API for loading templates

### function `load_template_from_pkg`
`load_template_from_pkg(pkg_name, template_name)`
loads the template named `template_name` that sits in the `templates`
**sub-package** of **package** `pkg_name`.

Loading templates using the built-in package searching facility of
Python and Jinja2 is a good way of getting rid of path guessing.

### function `load_template_from_path`
`load_template_from_path(path_name, template_name)`
loads the template named `template_name` that sits in the `templates` 
**sub-directory** of **directory** `path_name`.

This way of loading a template is more error prone due to path guessing.
You can avoid path guessing by using the low-level API described below.

## Low-level API for loading templates

### function `get_templates_path`
```get_template_path(template_folder_name='templates', path_parts=(), start_at=None)```
 returns the path of the `templates` folder under the main package root folder. Specify `path_parts`
as a tuple of strings to give all the intermediate folder names if the template directory is not directly under
the main package root folder. Provide a value for `start_at` to specify a starting path for the search.

    
### function `load_template`
```load_template(template_path, template_name)```
 loads a Jinja template from a given path and name.


